---
title: DC26 - a room full of hackers in which I don't belong
tags: defcon
---

DEFCON 26 is over! As much as I would have liked to write posts each day, both
too little and too much has happened for that to have been possible. So I am
writing one overarching post, and will maybe cover more in-depth thoughts in
later posts. So where to begin?

Lets start with a basic overview. There were incredible amounts of highly
skilled people, much beyond my level, many people who were just starting out,
and everyone in between. Seeing the level of knowledge, specialization, and
everything else gave me severe imposter syndrome. Obviously I was in the wrong
place if people are discovering hidden, undocumented RISC cores in x86, fuzzing
for weeks, and writing an assembler for a completely new vulnerability platform!
(Shoutout to Domas(moveaxeaxeax), I'm sure I will discuss this in another post
at length.)

But there's something important to remember about imposter syndrome, something I
always find comforting. If you feel it, that means you are able to recognize the
extent of your knowledge, and work towards improving. This is the Dunning-Kruger
effect (something which is highly controversial it seems). If you know
absolutely nothing of a topic, it is apparent, and you can admit it to yourself
and others. Learning a small amount will produce overconfidence in your own
assessment of your level, because you are ignorant of the depth of the field at
hand. As you continue to learn, you become more aware not only of what you know
now, but also of how much you don't know. As you continue learning, you continue
to discover the amount that could be known is much larger than you thought.
This is often simplified as "the know-it-all knows little, and the one who knows
it all will seldom admit it." Okay, its not a real quote. I wrote that, but I
like the way it sounds and I'm sticking to it. I try very hard to never succumb
to this, always remaining aware that for topics I am just starting, they are
much larger than I can see at the moment, and topics I am closely familiar with
have always been as complex as it is. Similarly, I frequently assume anyone who
self assesses any skill or knowledge they possess as a High level
(or 7/10 or above, depending on what scale you are using), is likely much lower
until they can prove themselves.

To my detriment, I will rarely admit that I am good at any topic, and when
asked, I will usually say something like "I am pretty good(ish) at X". I try to
remain modest because I know I am no expert in any field, even the ones I
consider to be my strongest. This is something I am working on changing.
While I believe modesty is important, "I'm no expert at X, but I'm decent" will
never set me apart. Self promotion and confidence is important. Overall, DEFCON
attracts some extremely smart people, who know some extremely complicated
things. And I will never be an expert at most of them, but I learned a lot, and
thats what counts.

I'm sure this is the first of probably several DC26 related posts, each covering
a very specific subtopic. I noticed imposter syndrome was a common theme because
the field of hacking, security, and computers in general is so broad, that
nobody could possibly know more than a miniscule amount. But that's okay. The
most important thing is: Keep learning! You'll only get better!
